Optuna integration & example script (2) (#46)
pfnet/pfrl: examples/optuna/README.md

# Hyperparameter Tuning with Optuna

Tune hyper parameters by [Optuna](https://optuna.org/).

The example script (`optuna_dqn_obs1d.py`) uses fixed target algorithm/environment<sup>†</sup>
in order to fucus on the concept of Optuna-powered PFRL,
but you can create onr for your own use thanks to the Optuna's high flexibility.

†: DQN and environments with 1d continuous observation space and discrete action space

## How to Run

### Quickstart

Quickstart on your laptop

```bash
storage="sqlite:///example.db"
study="optuna-pfrl-quickstart"
pruner="HyperbandPruner"

# Higher score means better performance ("--direction maximize")
optuna create-study --study-name "${study}" --storage "${storage}" --direction maximize

# Start tuning hyper parameters
python optuna_dqn_obs1d.py --optuna-study-name "${study}" --optuna-storage "${storage}" --optuna-pruner "${pruner}"
```

You can see the optimization history of this study on [Jupyter Notebook](https://jupyter.org/install)

> via [Optuna visualization module](https://optuna.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference/visualization.html):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
via [Optuna visualization module](https://optuna.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference/visualization/index.html):
```
Seems like the url has changed.

[corresponding Optuna document](https://optuna.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference/pruners.html).

### Distributed Optimization

The script can also be used as a "worker process" for parallel and distributed executions.

#### Prerequisites

Since [SQLite is not recommended for parallel optimization](https://optuna.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tutorial/004_distributed.html#distributed-optimization),
we'll use PostgreSQL instead of SQLite hereafter.  

- **Can access PostgreSQL** database named `${postgres_database}` running on a server `${host}`.
- `psycopg2` (PostgreSQL python wrapper) https://pypi.org/project/psycopg2/
  - `pip install psycopg2-binary` for installing stand-alone package
  - `pip install psycopg2` also works when you [have PostgreSQL libraries on your machine](https://www.psycopg.org/docs/install.html#prerequisites).

#### Create a study

```bash
# DB specs. We assume PostgreSQL here but you can use various backend DB engines.
# Here, you must be able to access to a PostgreSQL database named ${postgres_database}
# running on a server ${host}.
postgres_user="user"
postgres_password="password"
postgres_host="host"

> postgres_database"database"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
postgres_database="database"
```

storage="postgresql://${postgres_user}:${postgres_password}@${postgres_host}/${postgres_database}"
study="optuna-pfrl-distributed"
pruner="HyperbandPruner"

optuna create-study --study-name "${study}" --storage "${storage}" --direction maximize
```

#### Run the optimization

The script bellow can work wherever the backend DB is accessible.
For distributed optimization, just run this script on multiple servers.

```bash
postgres_user="user"
postgres_password="password"
postgres_host="host"

> postgres_database"database"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
postgres_database="database"
```

> # Example of Optuna-powered Hyper-parameters Tuning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Hyperparameter Tuning with Optuna
```
I think this is easier to understand.

Tune hyper parameters using [Optuna](https://optuna.org/).

Although the example script (`optuna_dqn_obs1d.py`) uses fixed target algorithm/environment
(i.e., DQN and environments with 1d continuous observation space and discrete action space)
in order to fucus on the concept of Optuna-powered PFRL,
you can create one for your own use easily thanks to the Optuna's high flexibility!

## How to Run

### Quickstart

The quickstart on your local machine.

```bash
storage="sqlite:///example.db"
study="optuna-pfrl-quickstart"
pruner="HyperbandPruner"

> # In common RL, higher score means better performance (`--direction maximize`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# In RL, higher score means better performance (`--direction maximize`)
```
"common RL" does not make sense to me.

optuna create-study --study-name "${study}" --storage "${storage}" --direction maximize

# Start tuning hyper parameters
python optuna_dqn_obs1d.py --optuna-study-name "${study}" --optuna-storage "${storage}" --optuna-pruner "${pruner}"
```

You can see the optimization history of this study on [Jupyter Notebook](https://jupyter.org/install)
via the [Optuna visualization module](https://optuna.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference/visualization.html):

```python
# On jupyter notebook
import optuna

study_name = "optuna-pfrl-quickstart"
storage = "sqlite:///example.db"
study = optuna.load_study(study_name=study_name, storage=storage)

optuna.visualization.plot_optimization_history(study)
```

![optimization_history](assets/optimization_history.png)

If you are interested in the `--optuna-pruner` argument above, see the
[corresponding Optuna document](https://optuna.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference/pruners.html).

### Distributed Optimization

> You might have already noticed that the sample script can be executed in parallel, and distributed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script is ready for parallel and distributed executions:
```

I think it is too much to say "You might have already noticed that".

> 

Reviewer: Can you add explanation of what each of the following two code blocks does? I guess the latter is an example of running a worker on a remote server `some-server`, but I think it is better to be clarified. Both code blocks are very similar.

Author: modified: https://github.com/pfnet/pfrl/pull/46/commits/3917f81b2b13a159be6d552b20a199f096bc57be

```bash
# DB specs. We assume PostgreSQL here but you can use various backend DB engines.

> # Note that SQLite is not recommended for parallel optimization.

Reviewer: Without installing `psycopg2-binary` I got `[E 2020-08-19 11:40:36,178] Failed to import DB access module for the specified storage URL. Please install appropriate one. (The actual import error is: No module named 'psycopg2'.)`. Can you clarify it is required?

Author: modified: https://github.com/pfnet/pfrl/pull/46/commits/3917f81b2b13a159be6d552b20a199f096bc57be

postgres_user="user"
postgres_password="password"

> postgres_host="host"

Reviewer: I got `[E 2020-08-19 11:48:41,619] (psycopg2.OperationalError) could not translate host name "host" to address: nodename nor servname provided, or not known`. Does `host` need to be replaced with some value?

Author: These parameters are all dummies.
 I assumed that there exists `database` postgres db on some server accessible with name `host`, since setting up a postgres server requires some instructions that are not strongly related to optuna.

I'll add "If you can access a postgres server, ..."  or "For setting up a postgres server, see official instruction (some URL)".

Author: modified: https://github.com/pfnet/pfrl/pull/46/commits/3917f81b2b13a159be6d552b20a199f096bc57be
